Docs 5467 access management connected apps (#50)
mulesoft/docs-access-management: modules/ROOT/pages/connected-apps-developers.adoc

The access token allows the app to see who the user is by using the user’s Anypoint Platform credentials.

== Endpoint Scopes

Most of the scopes in the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/accounts/api/v2/oauth2/.well-known/openid-configuration[discovery endpoint] map directly to existing permissions in Anypoint Platform. Other available scopes are defined as follows:

* `full`: Full access to anything the user can do.
* `read:full`: Read-only access to anything the user can read.
* `openid`: Read-only access to the user's username and unique Anypoint ID.
* `profile`: Read-only access to the user's Anypoint profile.
* `email`: Read-only access to the user's email.
* `offline_access`: Access to the user's data when they are not logged in.

== OIDC Endpoints and Tokens

To work with OpenID Connect, apps that require access to user data when the user isn’t logged in have to exchange refresh tokens for new access tokens.
Refresh tokens expire after 90 days. Access tokens expire after the user's session expires. If the app is using the authorization code grant type, the `offline_access` scope is required to use refresh tokens after original access tokens expire.

> To request a new access token, you must send a request to the token endpoint using the `refresh_token` grant type and the `offline_access` scope.

Reviewer: Let's remove "and the offline_access" scope from here. We don't show it in the example below and it's not strictly necessary.

Author: ```suggestion
To request a new access token, you must send a request to the token endpoint using the `refresh_token` grant type.
```

= Connected Apps for Developers
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Anypoint Platform provides a https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/[comprehensive set of APIs] that that enables developers to extend its functionality.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Anypoint Platform provides a https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/portals/anypoint-platform/[comprehensive set of APIs] that developers can use to extend functionality.
```

> With the Connected Apps feature, developers can delegate access to applications that interact with Anypoint Platform programmatically using APIs.

Reviewer 2: Kim okayed the uppercase for Connected Apps feature? 
```suggestion
With the Connected Apps feature, developers can delegate access to applications that use APIs to interact with Anypoint Platform programmatically.
```

While some might use the Connected Apps feature to build CI/CD pipelines, others can productize additional third-party use-cases on top of Anypoint Platform.

In addition to enabling new flows to authenticate users, developers can enable or disable clients and view client usage.
For example, developers can see how many organizations are using the app and how many users have access.

> The Connected Apps feature supports OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect. As such, developers must ensure their app can request access to user data using tokens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Connected Apps feature supports OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect. As such, developers must ensure their app can use tokens to request access to user data.
```

> The Connected Apps feature supports OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect. As such, developers must ensure their app can request access to user data using tokens.

Reviewer: This whole paragraph reads weird to me. Can we remove it entirely? I'm not sure what information it's trying to convey other than "your app has to be an oauth app"

To find out what specific OpenID Connect capabilities are supported, refer to the information provided in the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/accounts/api/v2/oauth2/.well-known/openid-configuration[discovery endpoint].

> Many of the scopes in the endpoint map directly to permissions available in Anypoint Platform.

Reviewer: If we say "many of the scopes", we need to say which ones. Can we say "all scopes except..." and list the exceptions?

Author: ```suggestion
All scopes in the endpoint map directly to permissions available in Anypoint Platform, with some exceptions noted in the *Endpoint Scopes* section.
```

> To foster a consistent authentication experience for end users, third-party developers with their own websites or web apps can allow users to log in using the *Sign in with Anypoint Platform* option.

Reviewer 2: I would say "sign in" instead of log in just to be consistent with the UI, which uses "sign in."

> To foster a consistent authentication experience for end users, third-party developers with their own websites or web apps can allow users to log in using the *Sign in with Anypoint Platform* option.

Author: ```suggestion
To foster a consistent authentication experience for end users, third-party developers with their own websites or web apps can allow users to sign in using the *Sign in with Anypoint Platform* option.
```

Developers who have the organization administrator role can create apps and specify access scopes in Anypoint Platform.

== Token Flow

> When a developer creates an app, the app includes a client that requests access to user data.

Reviewer: The app doesn't include a client. The app _is_ the client.

Author: ```suggestion
When a developer creates an app, the app requests access to user data.
```

> When an end user receives such a request and authorizes the app to access their data, the app receives an _access token_, allowing the app to call Anypoint Platform on the user’s behalf.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When an end user receives such a request and authorizes the app to access their data, the app receives an access token, which allows the app to call Anypoint Platform on the user’s behalf.
```

The access token allows the app to see who the user is by using the user’s Anypoint Platform credentials.

== Endpoint Scopes

Most of the scopes in the https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/accounts/api/v2/oauth2/.well-known/openid-configuration[discovery endpoint] map directly to existing permissions in Anypoint Platform. Other available scopes are defined as follows:

* `full`: Full access to anything the user can do.
* `read:full`: Read-only access to anything the user can read.
* `openid`: Read-only access to the user's username and unique Anypoint ID.
* `profile`: Read-only access to the user's Anypoint profile.
* `email`: Read-only access to the user's email.
* `offline_access`: Access to the user's data when they are not logged in.

== OIDC Endpoints and Tokens

To work with OpenID Connect, apps that require access to user data when the user isn’t logged in have to exchange refresh tokens for new access tokens.

> Tokens that are not refreshed expire after 90 days. If the app is using the authorization code grant type, the `offline_access` scope is required to use refresh tokens after original access tokens expire.

Author: ```suggestion
Refresh tokens expire after 90 days. Access tokens expire after the user's session expires. If the app is using the authorization code grant type, the `offline_access` scope is required to use refresh tokens after original access tokens expire.
```

> Tokens that are not refreshed expire after 90 days. If the app is using the authorization code grant type, the `offline_access` scope is required to use refresh tokens after original access tokens expire.

Reviewer: refresh tokens expire in 90 days. Access tokens expire after the user's session expire. This is important to clarify here.

To request a new access token, you must send a request to the token endpoint using the `refresh_token` grant type and the `offline_access` scope.
When authentication is successful, a refresh token is exchanged for an access token.

> The following example shows the structure of a token request:

Reviewer: of a token request given a pre-existing refresh_token

Author: ```suggestion
The following example shows the structure of a token request given a pre-existing refresh_token:
```

----
POST /api/v2/oauth2/token
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

> grant_type=refresh_token&client_id=<your_client_id>&client_secret=<your_client_secret>

Reviewer: &refresh_token=<your_refresh_token>

Author: ```suggestion
grant_type=refresh_token&client_id=<your_client_id>&client_secret=<your_client_secret>&refresh_token=<your_refresh_token>
```

== Sign in with Anypoint Platform Widget

For seamless implementation, developers can integrate a button into the front end of their apps with a pre-built template and set of components. They can add this widget using the following code:

----
<anypoint-signin scopes="full" redirecturi="https://auth.advancedrestclient.com/oauth-popup.html" clientid="2e38d46b60c5476584cdecba8b516711">
</anypoint-signin>
----

For more information about how to embed the button, refer to the https://github.com/anypoint-web-components/anypoint-signin[developer tutorial] and the https://anypoint-web-components.github.io/anypoint-signin/[developer playground].

// == Example

== Create an App

Before you create an app as an organization administrator, consider the following requirements and restrictions:

* Your organization can own up to 200 connected apps.
* A unique `clientID` is automatically assigned and can’t be modified.
However, you can modify client secrets in the *Application Settings* page.
* Your app is owned by your organization; any organization administrator can control it.

> * Actions taken by the app are logged with an application ID and user ID in the audit log so that you can monitor and audit data use.

Reviewer: This is misleading. Actions taken by the app are logged in the audit log of the organization that the action was performed in, rather than the organization that created the app. We should move this out of the Create an App section

Author: ```suggestion
```

> You must have the organization administrator role to build an application with Connected Apps.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> You must have the organization administrator role to build an application with Connected Apps.

Reviewer: This is redundant with line 70

> You should also determine the use-case (for example, CI/CD pipeline) and whether the app is internal to your company or is a third-party application that can be distributed outside of your organization.

Author: ```suggestion
You should also determine the use-case and whether the app is internal to your company or is a third-party application that can be distributed outside of your organization.
```

> You should also determine the use-case (for example, CI/CD pipeline) and whether the app is internal to your company or is a third-party application that can be distributed outside of your organization.

Reviewer: What does CI/CD pipeline mean here? (I know what it means, but does a reader?) Let's assume I ponder the use-case as instructed here. What do I do with that information?
